All right.
So what is the draw of using Python?
How is it different from other languages?
What advantages does it offer?
Python is a dynamic programming language.
And this really caught
me by surprise at first,
it was created by Guido van
Rossum in the late 1980s.
That means that Python is 30-years-old.
That means that it's
older than some of you.
It is old enough to vote.
So a lot of folks think that
Python is a new language.
Or that it's new on the scene.
That is not true.
It's just been gaining a lot of popularity
in probably the past ten years or so.
There's also this common misconception
that Python is only a scripting language.
It's really simple.
And that is not true at all.
Django is a web framework that's built
in Python is used to run Instagram,
which is one of the largest websites
in the world with the most users.
It powers parts of Reddit.
It's used at Netflix and
early versions of Dropbox were
built almost entirely in Python.
Dropbox credits a lot of its success to
Python, because Python is easy to read and
easy to write and it's easy for
teams to collaborate in Python.
They had this idea and
they were able to get a product out
the door as quickly as possible.
And then, when they had to scale, that
was something that they started dealing
with by replacing parts of
their application with go or
other more performant languages.
But they didn't optimize when they didn't
need to and that let them have this.
Very, very successful company.
It's also becoming an increasingly popular
language for education of all ages.
There is our Python books for kids.
Python is taught in universities and
I found this great quote that in 2014,
Python was the most popular teaching
language at top US universities.
And if you know Python, you might
not have a hard time finding a job.
Because it's one of the fastest
growing programming languages.
Guiteau said that Python is now
also the language of amateurs.
And I mean that in the best way possible.
That means that the language is
accessible to a lot of people.
One of the great things with
Python is that it's open source.
It's an active development, there's
a committed team of core contributors and
there are also a lot of issues that
are tagged welcoming for beginners.
So as you advance in your Python journey,
if you decide that you want
to contribute back to the language,
that is something that you can easily do.
We chatted a little bit
about versions in Python.
You might hear something about
Python 2 versus Python 3.
What's that all about?
I will say that this is maybe a little
bit of a stain on Python's history.
Python 3 was actually released in 2008.
And its adoption was very slow.
There were a lot of really popular
frameworks that didn't want to migrate
because it would have been a lot of work.
And because of that,
a lot of folks stuck to Python two and
instead of Python three, there was some
breaking changes that were introduced.
At this point,
that chapter is now fully closed.
Python two seven, which was the last
version of Python two is deprecated.
It has reached its end of life, it's
not getting critical security updates.
It's not getting critical,
new features that you might want to use.
So it's time to use Python three and
move on from Python two.
All of those popular libraries and
frame works have now migrated as well and
are likely not supporting their Python
two features because that's double
of the work.
So this course is going to
focus on Python three only.
And I would encourage you
all to use Python three for
all your personal projects and
projects at work.
Python has an incredibly rich
fully featured standard library,
there is a saying that Python
is batteries including.
So anything that you might want to do,
like working with JSON.
All of those are included
in the standard library,
you don't need to install
any additional packages.
And there's a link here into
the standard library and you can kind of
go through here and see what is available,
there's a lot of, stuff.
There's also the PyPi package index for
third party packages.
As of today,
there are almost 300,000 projects,
and almost half a million users.
So, this is where you go
where you want to find
something that's maybe water or
more niche.
And there are lots of third party packages
available for many different uses.
There's tons of stuff for AI and
Ml Scipy Numpy pandas pytorch.
There are great options for
hardware and microcontrollers.
There are two very popular web development
frameworks that are Django and
flask lots of tooling for DevOps.
And the absolute best part of Python
is actually the incredible community.
So after this course, I encourage you
all to continue in that community.
PyCon US is the biggest yearly conference
with approximately 4000 attendees.
There are lots of local user groups.
A lot of them are listed
in a wiki that is linked.
A lot of these groups
are now having online and
remote events that you can participate in.
And there are also many great and
supportive groups for women and
non binary developers,
such as pi ladies and Django girls.
And these organizations tend to
have chapters in most major cities.
And they do a lot of really,
really great work.
So, a little bit about
the philosophy of Python.
A lot of ideas in Python were formed
by something called the Zen of Python.
It's a collection of 19 software
principles that was sent to
the Python mailing list in 1999.
And you can actually find
the Zen of Python included in
the Python distribution as an Easter egg.
So let's go to our repple wherever you
have that open and type import this.
And we're not gonna read this whole thing.
But the the top few tenets
beautiful is better than ugly.
Explicit is better than implicit,
simple is better than complex,
complex is better than complicated.
Flat is better than nested
sparse is better than dense, and
most importantly, readability counts.
So as you advance through
your Python career,
you'll see more and
more of this in practice.
Python code should be simple,
you shouldn't try to make the most,
the smallest one liner that
nobody else can understand.
Python can give you those tools.
You can do it, but you shouldn't.
You should focus on making
your code very clear.
Very simple,
very readable flat is better than
nested means don't have arrow shaped code.
So no if statement if statement
if statement if statement,
not a ton of nested loops.
Try to keep everything as close to
the left margin as possible and
really focus on this is what
makes Python different from
a lot of other programming languages.
Now a way that Python
encourages you to write simple,
readable code is with a style
guideline that's included in
the languages list of official
proposals it's called Pep eight.
And if we take a look at this Pep eight
gives coding conventions for Python.
Everything from indentation
to maximum line
length to where blank
lines should be to where,
how the spacing around equal signs works.
You don't have to remember all of these
rules because tools called linters,
he should have installed
a linter in VS code.
We'll show you warnings when your
code doesn't meet PEPB standards.
Know that the warnings that lintec
linters give they're not syntax errors,
your code will still run, but it won't
be accepted Python code style standards.
Not very important when you're
working on your own, but
much more important when you're working
on a team and collaborating with others.
There are a few other easter
eggs that I'm going to show you.
Actually, I don't know if this
one works in Python three.
This was a Python two easter egg.
There we go.
So if you type from underscore
future import braces
like well Python the programming
language ever get braces,
you'll see a syntax error and
the message is not a chance.
[LAUGH] So Python won't be looking like
JavaScript anytime in the near future.
And then one of my favorite easter
eggs is if you import anti gravity.
This will take you to an XKCD comic
about Python that says you're
flying how with Python I learned it
last night everything is so simple.
Hello world is just print hello
world says Python two and
Python three you need those parentheses.
So, yeah, pythons a pretty fun language
but it's also very, very powerful.
We're going to take a short.
Break before we talk about the anatomy of
a Python program and jump into data types,